welcome everyone to this week's ipld
sync meeting it's november the 16th
2020 and as every week we go over the
stuff that we've worked
on the past week and then discuss
and open items um
let me just open the hack pad um yeah so
i start with myself so
um i've been working still
lots of stuff on the um rust side of
things
and what i currently which is also the
basic plan
for the this quarter is to concentrate
on getting
people that use upstream rust stuff
actually using it
and there was major changes on the
multi-format stuff
and now i'm helping those people to
upgrade
and also like of course like ideally
they upgrade themselves but
as it's really kind of like a huge
breaking change
i help them because i also want to see
if
still things can get smoother so for
example for the p2p
it was like a too bad breaking change
and then
they helped me to basically figure out
oh how can i make it smoother for them
and release the new version so i really
want to make also
take the chance to get the upgrade path
smoother and yeah
things just smoother for everyone and so
i help them
and so almost there is little p2p and
also
forest the rust filecon implementation
is upgrading
already upgraded through the latest
multihash and that was upgrading the
latest cid version
and they even see performance
improvements that's which is great
um just basically just due to the
upgrade
and yeah so the next stuff is obviously
rust ipod itself and then
also the ipfs implementation ipfs
embedded and rust ipfs
will be the next candidates i will look
into
um and then it's not highly related to
ipald but still
it's um i'm working for the file code
stuff
on getting code coverage for rust
projects and code coverage
for us stuff is a sad story currently
but there was
last week there was a new pr merged into
rust
which improves the coverage
tooling and i will look into that as
well and so it's also of course like
then
i could do it for five coin but it's all
obviously also like beneficial for
any rust project we have so um
let's see how this goes and this week i
also prepare
a talk so on so it's exciting that this
week we have two ipfs
meetups um on on thursday is the munich
ipfs meetup the virtual one and i will
give a talk about
um ipali and it will be kind of like
a broad overview of everything so it
really goes from multi-formats to
schemas but i already promised that i
also get into schema so i
might ping some of you folks to get more
like run stuff because like
it's really meant for people that
basically know nothing but also like
people that already have used ipl to get
excited about like the new stuff we're
building
so perhaps even into the like the
graphql stuff which is kind of cool like
it's also like related to schemas and
like yeah
seeing basically where where all this
could go might be interesting for them
um yeah so this is why i also work on
this week um yeah i think that's pretty
much it
next on my list is danielle
cool so i finally merged the first
version of go multi-codec
with the table of contents that we spoke
about a bunch of weeks ago
it's taken a while but it was a repo
that had some users and contributors
before
and i just wanted to make sure i wasn't
going too fast in case anybody else had
any thoughts
there's a second pull request now to
essentially polish the api a little bit
the person that wrote the code i already
reviewed them that code
a bunch of times before it got merged
but there was there were a few remaining
things
such as uh the names of the constants
were still not very nice so i simplified
that a little bit
and once that reviewed emerged i'll tag
the first release and then we can
actually start using it in the rest of
the go repost
i also continue with the hand um so now
it has
it follows links and it also knows how
to create links when you know
you create maps that are too big for a
single node and stuff like that
um i'm now working on node copying so
right now when i modify a node i just
modify it in place
which is fine for the tests but not for
much else so i'm working on that
and the only blocker i've got there i
shot eric
a question a little bit ago it's it's
not clear to me how the api should look
for this stuff
because if i modify a node that points
to another node
i can just modify this link and that's
fine but the root node
i can't just modify it in place if i
make a copy i need to give this
copy back to the user somehow so it's
not clear to me
how the go api for that should look like
i've been also helping eric review and
merge some changes to ipld prime
because he he's been posting a bunch of
poor review pull requests
to the repo over the past few weeks
um and it's quite a lot of code so we're
figuring out how to get that review
properly
and lastly i'm giving a talk at a go
meet up tomorrow
at the belfast one it's gonna be about
the ghost build cache so it's not gonna
be
ipld related but if anybody's interested
um i think it is
somewhat relevant especially for some of
the more complex
repos like ipld prime where the tests do
a lot of funky stuff
and then maybe the cache doesn't work
very well with that kind of thing so it
might be interesting
and that's it
thanks next one is right
so one of those weeks where
an accounting for it doesn't feel like
i'm capturing all the stuff i did
but i think it's just because this um
file coin data rpl data structure stuff
actually was a lot of work um i went
back through and
comb through all the code and pulled out
types and
and documentation as well so there's a
lot of inline documentation
and a lot of structure in the the linked
um pages that i've put in the notes so
there's the um
the main chain and then there's the
messages uh which also has returns and
they're all versioned as well
um so there's there's
been it's been quite educational going
through it as well um so there's
additional stuff in there like um the
actor
actor types are identified with a code
and i've generated all the different
codes
um in the documentation so you can
actually you could actually if you were
to build this you could hardwire in the
the byte strings to check for the codes
and there's a bunch of places where
there's just additional documentation
put in
describing what things are so i think
it's a good resource it's a good start
anyway
for getting this documented
and the the next step is probably to
restructure the adl stuff to get that
out of the way because it is mixed up in
between but
it does need a nice way to do that so
it's not completely hide it
and there was also there's a couple of
minor things but
um what else did i say the syntax
highlighter uh in vs code
for ipld schemas which is quite nice to
use when you're doing
pages of schemas um so happy about that
now the only place that there's oh
there's two places that need syntax
highlighting one is vim and the other
one is um
uh on github which is not gonna get
there so
uh that's really all for me
thanks and next one as well
ah sorry about that okay yeah um so
continued on
graphql code gen off of an ipld schema
that's now uh in a place people can play
with it which is
cool um ongoing work to make it faster
and uh figure out all of the various
uh there's a bunch of design stuff still
so what methods
uh do you want when you've got a map
because a map
is not a thing that graphql has for
whatever reason
it just has structs uh but you can
define
methods on it um so i left a few notes
that are probably mostly to
eric on various design things and how
they mesh
with between graphql and the ipld cogen
type schema
and so in particular um
it's very frequent that you want to do
paging where you've got different
requests coming in
and those want different set parts of a
list or a map
and right now the only thing that we
expose on ipld.node is
an iterator uh and that means we have to
either statefully keep that iterator
between different requests somehow to
know where it is
um or we have to start again with a new
iterator or somehow
keep our own sense of how to get
you know the second 10 items in a map or
a list
um and especially in a list i mean like
i can get by
index and hope that that works um but
we should think a little bit about if
there's a way to have cursors or some of
these other standard things for
making selections um that
is worth you know making people's lives
in that sense easier
um i also took the hampt
uh as it exists in filecoin project
slash
go amp ipld or something it has ipld in
the name of it still
um and added the ipld node um
methods to it and was successfully able
to plug that in as an ipld type
uh which means that it can pass through
it without loading the whole adl
which is quite good from a performance
improvement
but we should think about what that
actually means in practice and why we
would
probably discourage people from doing
that um
fixed uh or added a little bit more
validation and i'm starting to
understand
uh the intricacies of the go code
generation a little bit more
and we'll try and continue putting some
code in there
thanks next is
peter
yeah right uh so the ipod
stuff from last week yes uh i
finally figured out how to capture
everything i need from
from lotus uh including all
all state that we care about uh figured
out how to
correctly segregate it into uh
into slabs because like just putting it
into into stereo or just putting into
uh into a database is not uh sufficient
for what we need to be able to do with
it
uh now i actually have a way to capture
this particular
block has been seen for the first time
at
such and such epoch and more
interestingly for the stuff what we'll
be doing
i also can capture and will record for
the main chain
this particular uh
block has been accessed in this day
uh i will not be able to i mean
i could build you an entire dag in the
database but then it will be
it will also be one terabyte and we
don't want to do that uh
but we can at least have with very high
degree of granularity to say like this
particular
uh block has been accessed in this
this and this day which is probably
sufficient to
kind of get a rough idea where to look
and from there on you can just drill
further down and stuff like that
i just got this to work on
on nerpo uh yesterday and hopefully
we'll be able to
start the main ingestion today uh
there isn't this a little bit
difficulties i need to go through the
entire chain
once to actually record this uh all
these um
interactions uh but
yeah it hopefully will finish this week
so you
will have as a result uh
a way to see
uh not only what is there but when it
has been accessed and of course we will
have access to the entire
student chat chain industry going
forward uh
i am actually in the process right now
of uh uploading uh
on all a little bit older uh like
two three days ago um
set of blocks i just want to see how how
it will go and what adjustments i need
to
to make twisty to uh to get to in just
faster
um but yeah
uh one question for uh for later is
if anyone had a chance to walk through
the small
set that i put together just to make
sure that
i didn't actually miss things uh but
yeah that's more or less my update
thanks and next is chris
hey guys uh so a lot to report but
i did meet with hannah last week talking
about some of the
issues around validating the graph sync
requests and got some inspiration for
a better approach it's actually kind of
more similar to how
she did it in gra and go but um
from like i guess a high level design
point of view so start implementing
it this morning and can keep on working
on that
um let's go that's my update
thanks um eric do you have any updates
oh sorry i'm still typing in another
buffer and haven't copy pasted it in yet
um yeah so in the last week
um i've done some chatting about hampts
those are coming along
mostly through other people's work very
exciting um
we've been having specs meetings on
thursdays and
last week we managed to do that again um
we should probably say for anyone out
there on the internet who's listening to
this
these aren't super secret they're just a
different meeting than this one
if anybody wants to come fight about
specification and documentation issues
with us
um let us know either by like showing up
in this meeting and talking about it or
like send us messages in irc or
something
i think we want to like keep an intense
kind of working group vibe to it but
it's also not at all a secret so
anyway so that's happening on thursdays
last week the main one that i was
interested in is we tried to hash out
what's going to happen with the
any specification in the schema layer
again and
uh we've recruited a bunch more
information about that
and a couple of other topics as well i
still owe everybody a pr with those
notes
into the team management meeting where
again anybody else on the internet you
can go find the textual notes of this
we are not recording those meetings um
personally because i frankly want to
like speak well
frankly in them uh but we are producing
textual notes from them
and like that's the artifact of record
so
um and hopefully that's a productive
thing
in code news um
so i've torn off a little bit of work in
trying to
revamp some of the codex and go ipld
prime
um and this is something that i'm
probably going to carry the baton a
little way and then try to find a safe
quiet place to put it down again
because it's not the hugest priority in
the world right now but
the goal of doing this is mostly to do
something about the linking api in the
go ipld
primary post which has been something
we've known we want to improve for a
long time
so um this is trying to step in that
direction
um get some apis that are normalized so
they're more pluggable and
just normalized try to figure out where
codec configurability should fit
when we tolerate it which of course is
not always multi codecs do not
necessarily
like supporting configurability but
sometimes it's awfully nice if we can
have one tiny little switch that you can
use
if you really know what you're doing to
get like white space tolerance
right um so currently those things are a
crazy pain in the butt
to configure in the go i feel the prime
code base it requires reaching across
several packages it's just ugly
i'm trying to fix that um trying to get
more internally reusable code by
placing the tokenization boundaries
better and hoping to get as a target of
opportunity anyway performance
improvements at the end
so there's two pr's out of this already
um 101
was i think up last week already and 112
is now demonstrating some more of what i
hope a new codec will actually look like
with this i think some of the code is
turning out simpler
benchmarks are still big to do so we'll
see about that performance improvement
but things seem to be sort of moving
along on there
um the 112 pr is up
and available if anybody wants to review
it but it is also a little preliminary
for example the missing um benchmarks so
you know
take that with a grain of salt a lot
more stuff is probably needed there
before that's anywhere near landing
um some other minor pr's closed and tiny
features added like
convenience function to select links out
of a node tree
small things and um as velcro already
mentioned there's going to be a short
talk about
ipld that i'm going to do tomorrow in
another venue
about what's new and where we're going
it's going to be really brief
probably not actually interesting to
anybody who's following all of these
sessions in detail but
um hopefully be a good high level review
so
i'll copy the sign up link into our text
notes for this meeting too in case
anybody wants
that and that is it for me i need to go
prepared for that in fact
thanks um
so um does anyone
have anything else
i don't see any agent items
no then
i think it was a quick meeting which is
good because like
originally we we said that when we
expanded from half an hour to an hour
that we tried to squeeze it still
tried to keep it through half an hour
and now we're better so
that's good uh yeah so uh thanks
everyone and
see you all next week goodbye